Alright, what we want to do here, is
assign storage on the host, for the
container to use. Now we saw, in the last
section, there where it did not persist.
Because what's happening is, when we
establish a container, that container
does get a layer to work with, where it
can persist. All the other layers that
can't write out but it does get a
working directory, for like temporary
files and stuff like that, that it can
use. If you don't give it, if you
don't map to the host, that is lost when
we shut down the container, it restarts.
So what we want to do here is tell it,
and we're going to go through, and we'll
tell a rabbit or teller Mongo
instance to map to a specific directory
on the host machine. So when it starts
back up, it will bring the database up,
just like how it's running on localhost, if
it wasn't running inside of a container,
it would come back up and see its
persistent data. So we're going to toggle
over now. There's some important
stuff that I'm going to point out here
about mapping directories and different
operating systems with using Docker. Okay.
We're going to go over to the Mongo page,
for the Mongo instance that we're
working with. And I want to point out
something here. It's very important,
scrolling down here and it talks about
where to store data. And right here at
the top, big warning here, Windows and OS X. Now, this is applicable to using
VirtualBox. Okay. Now, the OS X client at
the time of this, let's say I'm
recording this early February 2017 and
the native installation of Docker,
probably, I'm not quite sure what came
out to be honest, but it hasn't been out
very long. Within the last six to nine
months. So like six nine months ago you
had run VirtualBox on OS X as well. So
there wasn't a native installation.
The same went for Windows. So Windows 10
now well it does some hypervisor stuff,
where you can run Docker natively and VMs
using that. So,
this whole space, I want to point out,
this is very rapidly approaching. So if
you're not running out of flavor of
Linux, some of these caveats might get
you. Now I'm running the latest OS X
Sierra. It's been pretty good. If
you're not running OS X Sierra, or not
running Windows 10, you may run into some
gotchas around assigning storage here, as it's pointing out here how the Mongo
page. So but to move forward, because this is an important section, because we want
to get persistent storage going with
Mongo, I'm going to move forward with
this. And so we can see right here, what
we want to do is specify this string here.
So that string there the - v parameter
says "map this host directory to this
container directory". That's what's
going to setup the persistent storage
for Mongo. So, I'm going to toggle over here to the command line. And if I do wrong
command window, history, and it's a quick
way to see what I've been running
against Mongo, and on line 540 that is
the command that I used to start off
Mongo. You can see I did not have a slash v
there. You can see in line 58, this
this is where I made a directory. So out
of my home directory, now I am I'm still
here though end-user /jt
I've created a dockerdata/mongo
directory. So now, if I I'm going to clear
those so we can stay at the top, doing
docker ps, that tells me Mongo is still
running. What I want to do is docker
stop, and I'm going to give it the container
name,
paste that in, and that's going to stop
the Docker instance, and I've got the
command prepared over here. Actually, I'm going to cd into that. So, you do see
nothing's there right now. So, that's
where I'm at. I'm on users/jt/dockerdata/
mongo. Now I'm going to run this command,
so I just want to recap what's going on
here.
I'm telling Docker. I'm telling it to run
and I'm passing it in a minus p, and
that's going to do the port mapping. So I
was going to map my host port of 27017
to the container port of 27017. I am
saying to run with the d flag is a
daemon in the background the Mongo
container and I'm also passing it in the
v parameter. Actually, I need to... made
one mistake here, so I need to call in
was it /data/db, so I need, like so.
I had a little mistake there in the
command I prepared. So now that's going to
map the directory on my machine in OS X
users/jt/dockerdata/mongo to the
container directory of data/db. So
let's go ahead and execute that, and
we'll get some feedback. Now let's
clear this and do docker ps to see
what's running, and nothing ran. So let's
do docker ps - a and let's do docker logs
in this container.
Ah...bad control value, so I think I have the
command wrong. Let's clear this. Rather
than that, I'm a switching stuff around
here on notepad. So I changed the order
so that, that v parameter, that was my
mistake. I changed that order around .So
now, you can see. What happened was, as
this was getting passed in as a
parameter to the module container, not
what I want so the /d assuming it has to be
the last one. So let's take a look and see
how that runs. Now we are running. So this
is looking much better.
Make sure it's still up. So he is up. So
let's jog over and take a look at our
Spring Boot. We can see that, he was not
happy there while it was down. I'm going to
restart this real quick. Take a look at
that. So Spring Boot is starting up. We
are running. Let's come over here to my
tutorial and it is happy. So let's come in
and we are adding a product test me. Okay?
So now, in theory, I should be, I'll come
over here and say docker stop this
container. I'm still in the Mango
directory. Let's do the ls. So now we
can see that there's some stuff going on
in here. Before it was empty.
I'm going to show you a trick, so I can
do a history, grep mongo. This brings up
my command, so I want that one I'm 575 so
if I do bang 575, and that's slang for
exclamation point. So if I just do that,
over on that same command, we can see
that Mango is up and running again.
Now I'll even bounce Spring
Boot here, just to make sure. So yeah... he
timed out and he restarted. I'm going to
pause again just to prove that
we're not caching anything in Spring
Boot. So we're going to do fresh start
of that. So he is up and running out.
Let's toggle back over and take a look
at this. I'm going to go to the list
view right off, and boom! There's my
product. So it is now persisting to the
database. You can see I ran into a couple
minor problems there in mapping the
storage there. I had the order of the
parameters in the incorrect
order. That was my mistake but I chose
to leave that in there, because I'm sure
one of you might do that in the
future. So I do try to leave my mistakes
in there and use them as learning
activities because I'm not always
perfect. But you can see here, by mapping
out that storage, we did get the
container to go to the host system and
gave it the permissions to write out to
those system. I did the... I've listed a
directory of that previous empty
directory. We saw the different files
that the Mongo database created, and then
we shut everything down,
brought it back up and we can see how
the Mongo database had persisted data
now to the host system.